KOGITO-5300 Document existing Kogito Addons (#3888)
kiegroup/kie-docs: doc-content/kogito-docs/src/main/asciidoc/addons/chap-kogito-addons.adoc

[id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]
= {PRODUCT} add-ons
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: kogito-add-ons

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]
You can extend {PRODUCT} core capabilities by using add-ons modules. Add-on modules extend persistence, monitoring, messaging, and many other features of the {PRODUCT} service.

The following table lists all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation, that the community supports:

.{PRODUCT} Quarkus add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===
|Name                     |Artifact Id                                          |Since

|Messaging                | kogito-addons-quarkus-messaging                     |1.0.0

> |Cloud Events Multi       | kogito-addons-quarkus-cloudevents-multi             |1.8.0

Reviewer: This line can be deleted. Sorry, I missed this one in the first review. @fjtirado FYI, we need to change in the runtimes repo as well.

|Jobs Management          | kogito-addons-quarkus-jobs-management               |0.6.0
|Knative Eventing         | kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing              |1.10.0
|Mail                     | kogito-addons-quarkus-mail                          |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic       | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic            |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus    | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus         |0.1.0
|Persistence ISPN Health  | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan-health |0.8.0
|Persistence Kafka        | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka             |1.4.0
|Process Management       | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-management            |0.3.0
|Process SVG              | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-svg                   |1.0.0
|Task Management          | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management               |1.4.0
|Task Notification        | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-notification             |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision         | kogito-addons-quarkus-tracing-decision              |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB           | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-mongodb                |1.11.0
|===

> .{PRODUCT} Quarkus add-ons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.{PRODUCT} Spring Boot add-ons
```

You can use Quarkus Knative eventing add-on if your project uses Knative Eventing for messaging.

The https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/blob/main/quarkus/add-ons/knative/eventing[{PRODUCT} Knative Eventing] add-on ensures that your project can connect to a https://knative.dev/docs/developer/eventing/sinks/[sink]. The add-on processes the https://knative.dev/development/developer/eventing/sources/sinkbinding/[K_SINK] and https://knative.dev/development/developer/eventing/sources/sinkbinding/reference/#cloudevent-overrides[K_CE_OVERRIDES] environment variables injected by Knative Eventing controllers.

The service requires the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/addons/common/messaging[{PRODUCT} Messaging] and https://quarkus.io/guides/reactive-messaging-http.html[Quarkus HTTP connector] libraries to wire the {PRODUCT} service with a given sink. Both are dependencies of this add-on.

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-knative-quickstart-quarkus[process-knative-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-order-processing[serverless-workflow-order-processing]

> For more information, see https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-knative-eventing_kogito-developing-process-services[Knative Eventing in {PRODUCT} services].

Reviewer: Don't we have a way to generate these URLs in the docs? Since it's a link to this doc, I believe an anchor will fit better here.

Reviewer: Same thing for every other URL to our doc in this PR.

[id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]
= {PRODUCT} add-ons
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: kogito-add-ons

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]
You can extend {PRODUCT} core capabilities by using add-ons modules. Add-on modules extend persistence, monitoring, messaging, and many other features of the {PRODUCT} service.

> The following table lists all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation, that the community supports:

Author: When you say we can drop this table, do you mean the table between lines 13 and 29? If so, do the changes you requested in these lines matter? Should we drop all 3 tables?

> The following table lists all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation, that the community supports:

Reviewer: Yes, it's the first one (lines 13-29). The changes are meant for the other tables. The comments fit them all. :)

> The following table lists all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation, that the community supports:

Author: ok, table removed.

.{PRODUCT} add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===

> |Relevance              |Property                                             |Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name              |Artifact Id                                             |Since
```

> |Cloud Events           |kogito-add-ons-quarkus-cloudevents                   |1.0.0 

Reviewer: The correct name is Messaging now: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/addons/common/messaging

And the artifact id is `kogito-addons-quarkus-messaging`. @fjtirado I think we forgot to update the README when you did the renaming. I'll update it.

Reviewer: btw, all artifacts in this table must be renamed from `add-ons` to `addons`. Please note the dash.

|Knative Eventing         | kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing              |1.10.0
|Mail                     | kogito-addons-quarkus-mail                          |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic       | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic            |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus    | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus         |0.1.0
|Persistence ISPN Health  | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan-health |0.8.0
|Persistence Kafka        | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka             |1.4.0
|Process Management       | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-management            |0.3.0
|Process SVG              | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-svg                   |1.0.0
|Task Management          | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management               |1.4.0
|Task Notification        | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-notification             |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision         | kogito-addons-quarkus-tracing-decision              |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB           | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-mongodb                |1.11.0
|===

.{PRODUCT} Quarkus add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===
|Relevance            |Property                                       |Description

> |Cloud Events         |kogito-addons-springboot-cloudevents           |1.0.0

Reviewer: Same thing here, we don't have the `Cloud Events` anymore. It's Messaging now.

|Events Decisions     |kogito-addons-springboot-events-decisions      |1.2.0
|Events Kafka         |kogito-addons-springboot-events-kafka          |0.3.0
|Explainability       |kogito-addons-springboot-explainability        |0.15.0
|Jobs Management      |kogito-addons-springboot-jobs-management       |0.6.0
|Mail                 |kogito-addons-springboot-mail                  |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic   |kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-elastic    |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus|kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-prometheus |0.1.0
|Process Management   |kogito-addons-springboot-process-management    |0.3.0
|Process SVG          |kogito-addons-springboot-process-svg           |1.0.0
|Task Management      |kogito-addons-springboot-task-management       |1.4.0
|Task Notification    |kogito-addons-springboot-task-notification     |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision     |kogito-addons-springboot-tracing-decision      |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB       |kogito-addons-springboot-events-mongodb        |1.11.0

|===

> == Cloud events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Messaging
```

> The Cloud Events add-on handles use cases with events on {PRODUCT} projects. See the following documentation sections to find out more.

Reviewer: @fjtirado I think we need to review this description for a more comprehensive description of the Messaging Add-On. wdyt?

- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-runtime-events_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} runtime events]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-travel-agency_kogito-deploying-on-openshift[Travel agency tutorial for {PRODUCT} services on OpenShift]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-data-index-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Data Index Service]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Trusty Service and Explainability Service]

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```
nit; We need to review this entire section to keep the correct naming that is Spring **B**oot.

For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[official documentation].

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

=== Spring boot

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

== Jobs management

The Jobs Management add-on provides integration and configuration for a project with the Jobs Service supporting service. 

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-timer-quarkus[process-timer-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-timer-springboot[process-timer-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]

For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-jobs-service_kogito-configuring[official documentation].

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

=== Spring boot

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

> == Knative

Reviewer: Let's keep just `Knative Eventing` here and merge both descriptions. Once we have more Add-ons, we can expand it.

The Knative add-on provides integration of projects with https://knative.dev/[Knative].

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: We don't have Spring Boot support for Knative yet.

Examples:
                                                                                                                                                                    - https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-infinispan-persistence-quarkus[process-infinispan-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-infinispan-persistence-springboot[process-infinispan-persistence-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-persistence-quarkus[process-kafka-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus[process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-springboot[process-mongodb-persistence-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-postgresql-persistence-quarkus[process-postgresql-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-postgresql-persistence-springboot[process-postgresql-persistence-springboot]

> === Quarkus

Reviewer: We have many persistence "flavors": postgres, mongo, file, etc. Maybe adding each one of them here? :thinking:

Author: Not sure what this means. Keep what is there already or add new stuff?

Reviewer: What I mean is that we don't have one artifact that handles persistence; we have many. Each one targets a specific database. So we can't have a `Quarkus`  or `Spring Boot`  XML excerpt for persistence. We must create one for each one of them: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/addons#add-ons-catalog (they are listed as commons, but we will migrate them to Quarkus/SB)

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-springboot-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console]

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

=== Spring boot

Add the following to your POM file:

<XML text>

> == Representational state transfer (REST) exception handler

Reviewer: This one is not meant to be used externally, we can drop this section.

> [id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest including this section as a referential module in the doc-content/kogito-docs/src/main/asciidoc/creating-running/chap-kogito-creating-running.adoc file.

</dependency>
----

.Spring Boot
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-events-decisions</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Explainability add-on in {PRODUCT}

The Explainability add-on in {PRODUCT} provides integration with Explainability and Trusty Services. You can also use https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/trusty-demonstration[`trusty-demonstration`] example application.

For more information, see the xref:con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[].

To use the explainability add-on, add the following code to the `pom.xml` file of your project:

.Quarkus
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-explainability</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

.Spring Boot
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-explainability</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Jobs Management add-on in {PRODUCT}

> The Jobs Management add-on provides integration and configuration for a project using the supporting services related to Jobs. You can also use the following example applications: For more information, see the xref:con-jobs-service_kogito-configuring[documentation].

Reviewer 2: The sentence says "You can also use the following example applications:" however, the example applications are missing.

  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

include::../bpmn/chap-kogito-developing-process-services.adoc[tag=process-man-add-on]

include::../bpmn/chap-kogito-developing-process-services.adoc[tag=process-svg-add-on]

== Task Management add-on in {PRODUCT}

The Task Management add-on provides integration with the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-apps/tree/master/task-console[Task Console]. For more information, see xref:con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services[{PRODUCT} Task Console].

To use the Task Management add-on, add the following code to the `pom.xml` file of your project:

.Quarkus
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

.Spring Boot
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-task-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Tracing add-on in {PRODUCT}

> The Tracing add-on provides Decision model and notation (DMN) services tracing capability. For more information, see the [documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Tracing add-on provides Decision model and notation (DMN) services tracing capability. For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring [documentation].
```

> [id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]

Author: You're right. I had moved it to that section but forgot to update the rendering. :O(

[id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]
= {PRODUCT} add-ons
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: kogito-add-ons

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]
You can extend {PRODUCT} core capabilities by using add-ons modules. Add-on modules extend persistence, monitoring, messaging, and many other features of the {PRODUCT} service.

> The following table lists all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation, that the community supports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables list all the add-ons that the community supports:
```

.{PRODUCT} Quarkus add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===
|Name                     |Artifact Id                                          |Since

|Messaging                | kogito-addons-quarkus-messaging                     |1.0.0
|Events Decisions         | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-decisions              |1.2.0

> |Events Smallrye          | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-smallrye               |0.3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Events Process         | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-process               |0.3.0
```

|Knative Eventing         | kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing              |1.10.0
|Mail                     | kogito-addons-quarkus-mail                          |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic       | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic            |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus    | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus         |0.1.0
|Persistence ISPN Health  | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan-health |0.8.0
|Persistence Kafka        | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka             |1.4.0
|Process Management       | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-management            |0.3.0
|Process SVG              | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-svg                   |1.0.0
|Task Management          | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management               |1.4.0
|Task Notification        | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-notification             |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision         | kogito-addons-quarkus-tracing-decision              |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB           | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-mongodb                |1.11.0
|===

.{PRODUCT} Spring Boot add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===
|Name                 |Artifact Id                                    |Since

> |messaging            |kogito-addons-springboot-Messaging             |1.0.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Messaging            |kogito-addons-springboot-messaging             |1.0.0
```

|===

== Messaging

The Messaging add-on handles use cases with events on {PRODUCT} projects. See the following documentation sections to find out more.

- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-runtime-events_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} runtime events]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-travel-agency_kogito-deploying-on-openshift[Travel agency tutorial for {PRODUCT} services on OpenShift]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-data-index-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Data Index Service]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Trusty Service and Explainability Service]

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-messaging</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>

>   <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-Messaging</artifactId>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-messaging</artifactId>
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Spring Boot does not support Knative Eventing at this time.

== Mail

With the Mail add-on, you can send emails in a Process project.

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot]

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-mail</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-mail</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Messaging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Events
```

> The Messaging add-on provides a default implementation in supported target platforms for EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces. You can use EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces to enable messaging by process, serverless workflow events, and event decision handling. For more information, see the following sections in the documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Events add-on provides a default implementation in supported target platforms for EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces. You can use EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces to enable messaging by process, serverless workflow events, and event decision handling. For more information, see the following sections in the documentation:
```

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-multi-quarkus[process-kafka-multi-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-multi-springboot[process-kafka-multi-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-quickstart-quarkus[process-kafka-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-quickstart-springboot[process-kafka-quickstart-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-knative-quickstart-quarkus[process-knative-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-github-showcase[serverless-workflow-github-showcase]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus[serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-temperature-conversion[serverless-workflow-temperature-conversion]

> === Quarkus

Reviewer: @briandooley I think we need to review this structure. The Events Add-On use case is separated as:

## Quarkus
### Events Smallrye
### Events Decisions
https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/quarkus/addons

## Spring Boot
### Events Kafka
### Events Decisions
https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/springboot/addons

Author: Message Payload Decorator - no xml. Get desc from line 324.
   
Quarkus

Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Message Payload Decorator

Reviewer: @fjtirado, isn't this section should be included in the `Events` one? Is this a new add-on? If so, we should update our README files. Can you please clarify?

To implement the MessagePayloadDecorator:

- Create a file named `META-INF/services/org.kie.kogito.add-on.cloudevents.message.MessagePayloadDecorator` in your class path.
- Open the file.
- Enter the full name of your implementation class in the file.
- Save the file.

The `MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider` loads the file upon application startup and adds the file to the decoration chain. When {PRODUCT} calls the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/blob/main/addons/common/messaging/common/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/addon/cloudevents/message/MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider.java[MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider#decorate], your implementation is part of the decoration algorithm.

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Monitoring

Reviewer: @briandooley, the `Monitoring` add-on has two "flavors": elasticsearch and prometheus. I think we need to break the flavors and then the runtime. For example:

## Elastic Search
### Quarkus
 `<XML>`
### Spring Boot
 `<XML>`

## Prometheus
### Quarkus
 `<XML>`
### Spring Boot
 `<XML>`

Author: Monitoring
   Quarkus
      Elastic Search - kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic

      Prometheus - kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus

   Spring boot
      Elastic Search
      Prometheus

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-drools-quarkus-metrics[dmn-drools-quarkus-metrics]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-drools-springboot-metrics[dmn-drools-springboot-metrics]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-quarkus[dmn-tracing-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-springboot[dmn-tracing-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/onboarding-example[onboarding-example]

=== Quarkus

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Spring Boot

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId></artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Persistence

Reviewer: The same use case that we have in monitoring as I mentioned in my comment from a few days ago:

Persistence FileSystem
Persistence Infinispan 
Persistence JDBC
Persistence MongoDB 
Persistence Postgresql
Process Management

Author: Persistence
   Quarkus
      kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-filesystem
    Springboot
      kogito-addons-persistence-filesystem

Persistence FileSystem
Persistence Infinispan
Persistence JDBC
Persistence MongoDB
Persistence Postgresql
Persistence Kafka
   Quarkus
      kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka

[id="chap-kogito-add-ons"]
= {PRODUCT} add-ons
ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]
:context: kogito-add-ons

// Purpose statement for the assembly
[role="_abstract"]
You can extend {PRODUCT} core capabilities by using add-ons modules. Add-on modules extend persistence, monitoring, messaging, and many other features of the {PRODUCT} service.

> The following tables list all the add-ons, independent of runtime implementation that the community supports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables list all the add-ons, grouped by runtime that the community supports:
```

|Knative Eventing         | kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing              |1.10.0
|Mail                     | kogito-addons-quarkus-mail                          |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic       | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic            |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus    | kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus         |0.1.0
|Persistence ISPN Health  | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan-health |0.8.0
|Persistence Kafka        | kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka             |1.4.0
|Process Management       | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-management            |0.3.0
|Process SVG              | kogito-addons-quarkus-process-svg                   |1.0.0
|Task Management          | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management               |1.4.0
|Task Notification        | kogito-addons-quarkus-task-notification             |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision         | kogito-addons-quarkus-tracing-decision              |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB           | kogito-addons-quarkus-events-mongodb                |1.11.0
|===

.{PRODUCT} Spring Boot add-ons
[cols="20%,50%,20%"]
|===
|Name                 |Artifact Id                                    |Since

> |messaging            |kogito-addons-springboot-messaging             |1.0.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Messaging            |kogito-addons-springboot-messaging             |1.0.0
```

|Events Decisions     |kogito-addons-springboot-events-decisions      |1.2.0
|Events Kafka         |kogito-addons-springboot-events-kafka          |0.3.0
|Explainability       |kogito-addons-springboot-explainability        |0.15.0
|Jobs Management      |kogito-addons-springboot-jobs-management       |0.6.0
|Mail                 |kogito-addons-springboot-mail                  |1.6.0
|Monitoring Elastic   |kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-elastic    |1.2.0
|Monitoring Prometheus|kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-prometheus |0.1.0
|Process Management   |kogito-addons-springboot-process-management    |0.3.0
|Process SVG          |kogito-addons-springboot-process-svg           |1.0.0
|Task Management      |kogito-addons-springboot-task-management       |1.4.0
|Task Notification    |kogito-addons-springboot-task-notification     |1.6.0
|Tracing Decision     |kogito-addons-springboot-tracing-decision      |0.11.0
|Events MongoDB       |kogito-addons-springboot-events-mongodb        |1.11.0

|===

> == Messaging
> 
> The Messaging add-on handles use cases with events on {PRODUCT} projects. See the following documentation sections to find out more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Events

The Events add-on handles use cases with events on {PRODUCT} projects. See the following documentation sections to find out more.
```

- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-runtime-events_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} runtime events]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-kogito-travel-agency_kogito-deploying-on-openshift[Travel agency tutorial for {PRODUCT} services on OpenShift]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-data-index-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Data Index Service]
- https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[{PRODUCT} Trusty Service and Explainability Service]

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-messaging</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Decision Model and Notation (DMN) event-driven

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-event-driven-quarkus[dmn-event-driven-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-event-driven-springboot[dmn-event-driven-springboot]

=== Quarkus smallrye

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus[process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-quarkus-example[process-quarkus-example]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console]

> === Spring boot kafka

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot Kafka
```

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-springboot[process-mongodb-persistence-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-springboot-example[process-springboot-example]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-springboot-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console]

=== Quarkus
Add the following code to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-events-decisions</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

Add the following to your POM file:

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-events-decisions</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Explainability

The Explainability add-on provides integration with Explainability and Trusty Services. The https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/trusty-demonstration[trusty-demonstration] explores explainability further.

For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring[documentation].

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-explainability</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-explainability</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Jobs management

The Jobs Management add-on provides integration and configuration for a project with the Jobs Service supporting service. 

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-timer-quarkus[process-timer-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-timer-springboot[process-timer-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]

For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-jobs-service_kogito-configuring[documentation].

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-jobs-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-jobs-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Knative eventing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Knative Eventing
```

The service requires the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/main/addons/common/messaging[{PRODUCT} Messaging] and https://quarkus.io/guides/reactive-messaging-http.html[Quarkus HTTP connector] libraries to wire the {PRODUCT} service with a given sink. Both are dependencies of this add-on.

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-knative-quickstart-quarkus[process-knative-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-order-processing[serverless-workflow-order-processing]

For more information, see https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-knative-eventing_kogito-developing-process-services[Knative Eventing in {PRODUCT} services].

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-knative-eventing</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

Spring Boot does not support Knative Eventing at this time.

== Mail

With the Mail add-on, you can send emails in a Process project.

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot]

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-mail</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-mail</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Messaging
```

I think I made a mistake previously. This is the `Messaging` add-on, not the `Event`.

> The Events add-on provides a default implementation in supported target platforms for EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces. You can use EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces to enable messaging by process, serverless workflow events, and event decision handling. For more information, see the following sections in the documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Messaging add-on provides a default implementation in supported target platforms for EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces. You can use EventEmitter and EventReceiver interfaces to enable messaging by process, serverless workflow events, and event decision handling. For more information, see the following sections in the documentation:
```

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-multi-quarkus[process-kafka-multi-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-multi-springboot[process-kafka-multi-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-quickstart-quarkus[process-kafka-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-quickstart-springboot[process-kafka-quickstart-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-knative-quickstart-quarkus[process-knative-quickstart-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-github-showcase[serverless-workflow-github-showcase]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus[serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/serverless-workflow-temperature-conversion[serverless-workflow-temperature-conversion]

=== Message payload decorator

> Any dependant add-on can implement the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/blob/main/addons/common/messaging/common/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/addon/cloudevents/message/MessagePayloadDecorator.java[MessagePayloadDecorator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any dependant add-on can implement the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/blob/main/addons/common/messaging/common/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/addon/cloudevents/message/MessagePayloadDecorator.java[MessagePayloadDecorator] included in the Messaging Add-On.
```

To implement the MessagePayloadDecorator:

- Create a file named `META-INF/services/org.kie.kogito.add-on.cloudevents.message.MessagePayloadDecorator` in your class path.
- Open the file.
- Enter the full name of your implementation class in the file.
- Save the file.

The `MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider` loads the file upon application startup and adds the file to the decoration chain. When {PRODUCT} calls the https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/blob/main/addons/common/messaging/common/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/addon/cloudevents/message/MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider.java[MessagePayloadDecoratorProvider#decorate], your implementation is part of the decoration algorithm.

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

> ==== Events smallrye

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Events Smallrye
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-events-smallrye</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

==== Events decisions

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-events-decisions</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

> ==== Events kafka

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Events Kafka
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-events-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> ==== Events decisions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Events Decisions
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-events-decisions</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

== Monitoring

The Monitoring add-on provides monitoring capabilities. For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#_metrics_monitoring_in_kogito_services[documentation].

> Examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the following example applications for monitoring add-on:
```

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-drools-quarkus-metrics[dmn-drools-quarkus-metrics]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-drools-springboot-metrics[dmn-drools-springboot-metrics]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-quarkus[dmn-tracing-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-springboot[dmn-tracing-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/onboarding-example[onboarding-example]

Add the following code to your POM file:

> === Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for elastic search
```

> ==== Elastic search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Elastic Search
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-elastic</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> ==== Prometheus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for Prometheus
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-monitoring-prometheus</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for elastic search
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

> ==== Elastic search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Elastic Search
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-elastic</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> ==== Prometheus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for Prometheus
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-monitoring-prometheus</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Persistence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Persistence add-on in {PRODUCT}
```

> The Persistence add-on provides persistence capability. For more information, see the https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-persistence_kogito-developing-process-services[documentation].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The persistence add-on provides persistence capability in your {PRODUCT} project. For more information, xref:con-persistence_kogito-developing-process-services[].
```

> Examples:

Reviewer 2: You can use the following example applications for persistence add-on:

                                                                                                                                                                    - https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-infinispan-persistence-quarkus[process-infinispan-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-infinispan-persistence-springboot[process-infinispan-persistence-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-kafka-persistence-quarkus[process-kafka-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus[process-mongodb-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-mongodb-persistence-springboot[process-mongodb-persistence-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-postgresql-persistence-quarkus[process-postgresql-persistence-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-postgresql-persistence-springboot[process-postgresql-persistence-springboot]

Add the following code to your POM file:

> === Persistence filesystem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence filesystem
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-filesystem</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence filesystem
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-filesystem</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Persistence infinispan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Persistence Infinispan
```

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence Infinispan
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-infinispan</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence Infinispan
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-infinispan</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Persistence JDBC

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence JDBC
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-jdbc</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence JDBC
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-jdbc</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

=== Persistence MongoDB

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence MongoDB
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-mongodb</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence MongoDB
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-mongodb</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Persistence postgresql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Persistence PostgreSQL
```

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence PostgreSQL
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-postgresql</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence PostgreSQL
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-postgresql</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Persistence kafka

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Persistence Kafka
```

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest removing this

> ==== Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus dependency for persistence Kafka
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-persistence-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot dependency for persistence Kafka
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-persistence-kafka</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Process management

Reviewer 2: We already have a dedicated section for process management add-on: https://docs.kogito.kie.org/latest/html_single/#con-bpmn-process-management-addon_kogito-configuring
Please review the section and ensure that there is no duplication of the content.
```suggestion
== Process Management add-on in {PRODUCT}
```

> The Process Management add-ons provide process management capability, and they are part of the integration with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Process Management add-ons provide process management capability in your {PRODUCT} project, and the add-on is used for integration with the {PRODUCT} Management Console. 
```

> [{PRODUCT} Management Console](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-apps/tree/master/management-console). For more information, see the [documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-bpmn-process-management-add-on_kogito-developing-process-services).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:con-bpmn-process-management-add-on_kogito-developing-process-services.
```

> Examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the following example applications for the Process Management add-on:
```

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-quarkus-example[process-quarkus-example]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-springboot-example[process-springboot-example]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-timer-springboot[process-timer-springboot]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-springboot-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console]

Add the following code to your POM file:

> === Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-process-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-springboot-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Process SVG

Reviewer 2: We already have a dedicated section for Process SVG add-on: https://docs.kogito.kie.org/latest/html_single/#con-bpmn-process-svg-addon_kogito-developing-process-services
Please review the section and ensure that there is no duplication of the section.

Examples:

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/kogito-travel-agency[kogito-travel-agency]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-springboot-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-timer-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-quarkus-with-console]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console[process-usertasks-with-security-oidc-springboot-with-console]

Add the following code to your POM file:

=== Quarkus

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-process-svg</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-process-svg</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Task management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Task Management add-on in {PRODUCT}
```

> The Task Management add-on provides integration with the {PRODUCT} supporting service [Task Console](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-apps/tree/master/task-console). For more information, see the [documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Task Management add-on provides integration with the [Task Console](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-apps/tree/master/task-console). For more information, see xref:con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services.
```

> Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use the following example applications for Task Management add-on:
```

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot[process-usertasks-custom-lifecycle-springboot]

Add the following code to your POM file:

> === Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-task-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-springboot-task-management</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> == Tracing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Tracing add-on in {PRODUCT}
```

> The Tracing add-on provides Decision model and notation (DMN) services tracing capability. For more information, see the [documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Tracing add-on provides Decision model and notation (DMN) services tracing capability in your {PRODUCT} project. For more information, see xref:con-trusty-service_kogito-configuring.
```

> Examples:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use the following example applications for tracing add-on:
```

- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-quarkus[dmn-tracing-quarkus]
- https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/dmn-tracing-springboot[dmn-tracing-springboot]

Add the following code to your POM file:

> === Quarkus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Quarkus
```

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
  <artifactId>kogito-addons-quarkus-tracing-decision</artifactId>
  <version>{PRODUCT_VERSION}</version>
</dependency>
----

> === Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Spring Boot
```

> === Spring boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Spring Boot
```
